---
layout: post
title: R vs!
---

What are your thoughts on R vs whatever other software you've used?  What functionality do you like about R?  What parts do you miss about your other language?  Do you consider R a difficult language to learn? (If you knew R prior to the course, describe your experience when first learning it.)

My first internship was with a medical logistics firm, Health Link International. It was a learning experience about how to work in a professional setting and how to complete work quickly and effectively. I had many projects over my sophomore summer, but learning how to webscrape thousads of websites to identify entity types (Clinic, Laboratory, Hospital,...) required the most growth. I had never programmed before but decided this was the only reasonable solution my project. I began watching videos about python, self teaching, and challenging myself to create an effecient easy program. To this day Python is still my weapon of chioce. While I find that the data structures are more complex, it seems there are more packages available. I have been able to work with text data much more efffectively in python than in R or SAS. Additionally, working with audio data in Python has felt seemless. There are many packages in Python that make this process simple and quick. 

I have been learning and using R since junior year of college. I began using R during my first data science course at NC State University and picked it up relatively quickly. Like python it is object oriented which felt natural to me. In adddition, the documentation (cheat sheets) and simple structure of the tidyverse made learning R an quicker task than learning python. Creating complex and beautiful graphs in R is much easier compared to SAS. Like all programming languages, it takes effort, mindfulness, and the appropriate tools to learn. But R is well documented and has a natural structure that makes it feel simpler than other languages. 

SAS is the software I learned last and use the most. The procedural orientation fels quirky and can sometimes make data difficult to manipulate. It is great for quick data summarization but also felt rigid. Doing complex tasks feels unnecessarily difficult. The formatting of SAS is one of its greatest strengths but is also adds a layer of complexity. 


